2019-09-17 12:28: Let us pick up where we wanted to go in the last update. The releases and the current state of things. We have started with a release pipeline and queue. This is far better than the bundles that we were dealing with earlier. It means that we can isolate scope for releases. However, the queue needs to be managed and any slip is now visible as to what it affects. The temptation is there to still bundle everything. 

This happens from time to time and it happened recently. The thing about that is that the teams bundled together do not have the same manager and therefore the same priority or urgency to get things in. That means that should things be urgent for one team and not for the other... then there is incentive for the one team to put pressure on the other one to get into production. However, this causes much friction as the parties argue among themselves for a release date. 

This could be resolved with some consistency. Unfortunately in this space there is a reactive manager. That is left to discuss in a future summary. This does mean that things are not consistent. As when you are dealing with something on a reactive manner, what you say now is not what you say later or what you said before. That is because you are only responding when something happens and dealing with that thing in isolation. What annoys me is that the queue is now visible. It is obvious what the impact is on various decisions as you can visibly see the impact. It is as if this information is discarded and therefore shit decisions are made.

This is also not the first time, there are various cases on a day to day basis. On the same day it was asked to see what can be done to stop a integration promotion for another team so that a release could be protected. That information and action was required urgently as it was about to happen in the next 30 min. At great effort and cost the information was gotten in the same session it was asked. When it was presented however to further decision making process... it was rejected and that it should be handled in another session. Where is that urgency then?

Similarly how is it that when pushing to release early, the excuse is that the things delaying the release are production issues and deemed highest priority. Though we don't have someone to test them in integration so we only promoting in a weeks time! How does this even make logical sense?